if you ever opened up an electronic
device you have seen not one but more
than one I see which is in my case a
microcontroller I see from a DVD player
or you can say a PWM I see on a power
supply even if I say like this that
electronics is incomplete without an IC
then it is correct because IC is like
the backbone in electronic circuits so
in this episode we are going to study
about ICS we will discuss about what is
an IC how it works and where to use them
so without wasting any more time let's
get started the full form of IC is most
of you probably know is integrated
circuit so to make one of this IC you
will need thousands of electronic
components like resistor capacitor diode
and transistors they are directly formed
onto a sheet of silicon so they get a
shape of an IC now if we talk about
their types they are divided into two
groups the first one is a square I see
like this atmega328 one Arduino Nano you
can see that it has spins on all the
four sides which is in some ICS contain
it depends and in some i sees it
contains hundred pins even these pins
reach more than 500
the second type of IC is a square I see
like this grandfather of all Isis any
triple five timer you see it has spins
on only two sides that's why it is
called rectangular I see so have a look
at this if I would ask you how many
electronic components like resistor
capacitor diode and transistors are they
in this IC then it would impossible for
you to guess the amount so if we take a
look at the internal schematic of any
triple five timer you can see there are
a total of 23 transistors 15 resistors
and a couple of diodes you see how the
managed to fix all these 23 transistors
and 15 resistors in this small IC
although if you are thinking you can
break this IC and see all those
components they are formed onto a sheet
of silicon in such a way that we cannot
see with our naked eye now the question
is what is the fun of making these ICS
if we can make one
by using schematic diagram so if I would
follow the schematic diagram and make
the whole circuit by using same amount
of resistors and transistors then it
would take the entire breadboard to make
the whole circuit that's why I do two
advancement in technology they pack this
rather big circuit in a very small IC so
we can use the circuit in a very less
space at last let me clear one thing
from my mind in these isis there exist
opponents like transistors resistors
capacitors diodes Fe T's and MOSFETs etc
but there does not contain coils and
transformers take a look at any IC you
can see resistor capacitors but you
cannot see coil and transformers the
reason for that is due to their large
size making them small in size is very
expensive as compared with other
components like resistors capacitors so
designers avoid to use them in ICS
that's why we have to use those
components externally in our circus
so finally friends let's end this topic
here I hope you enjoyed watching this
video if so don't forget to subscribe to
this channel so we can further discuss
about all these components in detail
apparently this video is not that
special but it is useful for all those
friends who are new into electronics
once again don't forget to like share
and subscribe stay safe and I'll see you
next time
[Music]
you